The data consists of three files:
1. Species list: This file is in excel format, and has organismal groups in different tabs. Each tab lists species under that organismal group and their taxonomic details. All the species listed in Zooplankton, Prawns, Mollusca, Aquatic insects, Fish, and Herpetofauna are all completely wetland-dependent. We have provided a full list of Mammals and Aves found in and around the habitat and earmarked the wetland-dependent species with a special column (WETLAND_DEP) with 1 denoting wetland dependence. We have also provided a list of the aquatic plants and phytoplankton on the site.
2. Trophic interaction list:  This file is in comma-separated values format (.csv). The different columns depict:
   1. SL: Serial number of species
   2. Species: Name of the species
   3. PREMONSOON: Whether the species has been observed in the Premonsoon season
   4. MONSOON: Whether the species has been observed in the Monsoon season
   5. POSTMONSOON: Whether the species has been observed in the Postmonsoon season
   6. FUNC_GRP: Organismal group of the species (Autotrophs, Zooplankton, Prawns, Aquatic Insects, Fish, Aves, Mammal, Mollusca, Reptiles, Amphibians)
   7. HABITAT: Habitat type of the species (Terrestrial, Limnetic, Littoral, Profundal, Benthic, Neustonic)
   8. SIZE_CAT: Size categories of the species as per the following:
1: <1 mm
2: ~1 cm
3: 1-10 cm
4: 10-50 cm
5: 50-100 cm
>100 cm
   9. REL_ABUN_CAT: Whether the species is rare (1), common (2), or very common (3)
   10. FEEDING_REF: Feeding reference from the literature that also documents our observed interactions (not necessarily all were seen previously)
3. Ecosystem Service list: This file is in comma-separated values (.csv) format. The metadata for each focal special is the same as the Trophic interaction list, with two new columns:
   1. DIRECT_SERVICE_PROVIDER, which depicts the ecosystem services rendered directly by the species
   2. INDIRECT_SERVICE_PROVIDER, which depicts the ecosystem services rendered indirectly by the species, usually by supporting the survival of direct service providers.
                The numbers denoted in these columns are represented by the following list:
1: Fishery
2: Bird Watching
3: Carbon sequestration
4: Nutrient recycling and provisioning
5: Aquatic recreation
6: Food provisioning
7: Bio-Control
8: Bioindicators